docs/src/10_quality_requirements.adoc, before:

ifndef::imagesdir[:imagesdir: ../images]

[[section-quality-scenarios]]
== Quality Requirements


ifdef::arc42help[]
[role="arc42help"]
****

.Content
This section contains all quality requirements as quality tree with scenarios. The most important ones have already been described in section 1.2. (quality goals)

Here you can also capture quality requirements with lesser priority,
which will not create high risks when they are not fully achieved.

.Motivation
Since quality requirements will have a lot of influence on architectural
decisions you should know for every stakeholder what is really important to them,
concrete and measurable.


.Further Information

See https://docs.arc42.org/section-10/[Quality Requirements] in the arc42 documentation.

****
endif::arc42help[]

=== Quality Tree

ifdef::arc42help[]
[role="arc42help"]
****
.Content
The quality tree (as defined in ATAM – Architecture Tradeoff Analysis Method) with quality/evaluation scenarios as leafs.

.Motivation
The tree structure with priorities provides an overview for a sometimes large number of quality requirements.

.Form
The quality tree is a high-level overview of the quality goals and requirements:

* tree-like refinement of the term "quality". Use "quality" or "usefulness" as a root
* a mind map with quality categories as main branches

In any case the tree should include links to the scenarios of the following section.


****
endif::arc42help[]

[cols="1,1,2"]  
|=== 
|Quality Category |Quality |Description 
|Performance
|Responsiveness
|The system is expected to respond quickly to user inputs
|
|Concurrency
|Multiple users must have service at the same time

|Security
|Individuality
|User's actions must not interfere with another user's experience. For example, pressing a button in one session should not affect any other user's game.
|
|Robustness
|The user must not see anything he's not expected to.

|User experience
|Continuity
|A player must be able to continue playing without issue for as long as he wishes.
|
|Intuitiveness
|The system must be easy to understand and use
|
|Freshness
|The questions on the sytem musn't become predictable nor be the same all the time.
|===

=== Quality Scenarios

ifdef::arc42help[]
[role="arc42help"]
****
.Contents
Concretization of (sometimes vague or implicit) quality requirements using (quality) scenarios.

These scenarios describe what should happen when a stimulus arrives at the system.

For architects, two kinds of scenarios are important:

* Usage scenarios (also called application scenarios or use case scenarios) describe the system’s runtime reaction to a certain stimulus. This also includes scenarios that describe the system’s efficiency or performance. Example: The system reacts to a user’s request within one second.
* Change scenarios describe a modification of the system or of its immediate environment. Example: Additional functionality is implemented or requirements for a quality attribute change.

.Motivation
Scenarios make quality requirements concrete and allow to
more easily measure or decide whether they are fulfilled.

Especially when you want to assess your architecture using methods like
ATAM you need to describe your quality goals (from section 1.2)
more precisely down to a level of scenarios that can be discussed and evaluated.

.Form
Tabular or free form text.
****
endif::arc42help[]
- Responsiveness -> Every input from the frontend must have an appropiate response before a second has passed, else a loading page must be shown.
- Concurrency -> One hundred users at least must be supported simultaneously
- Individuality -> A user selecting the fourth option must not generate any option in another one's game. Each game is a separate entity.
- Robustness -> A bad input from a user must not neither crash nor break the system.
- Continuity -> A user may play 20 games straight without pause. 
- Intuitiveness -> The ui must be clean to enable non tech-savvy users to  enjoy the game within 15 minutes from picking up the game.
- Freshness -> New questions must be inserted into the db to avoid any repetition of questions in a single game. Questions are to be updated every 30 minutes

=== Load testing results
Load test results were made on the deployed appllication, making use of the gatling tool.

As you can check, on last version at the time, v1.2.0, the tool showed we passed the concurrency requirement by quite a lot: 485 users concurrently will make only a few users experience some latency, a total of 14% of the total requests, but no fairlures. >500 users does arise some errors, as we tested on 536 users and 5 errors were recorded.

The top latency responses where concentrated on saving the game, but more interestingly, the second behind it often won at the mean latency and were either requests to the leaderboard (api/leaderboard) or to the user's statistics (api/scoresByUser).

Commit message:

docs: :adhesive_bandage: Fix typo

docs/src/10_quality_requirements.adoc, after:

ifndef::imagesdir[:imagesdir: ../images]

[[section-quality-scenarios]]
== Quality Requirements


ifdef::arc42help[]
[role="arc42help"]
****

.Content
This section contains all quality requirements as quality tree with scenarios. The most important ones have already been described in section 1.2. (quality goals)

Here you can also capture quality requirements with lesser priority,
which will not create high risks when they are not fully achieved.

.Motivation
Since quality requirements will have a lot of influence on architectural
decisions you should know for every stakeholder what is really important to them,
concrete and measurable.


.Further Information

See https://docs.arc42.org/section-10/[Quality Requirements] in the arc42 documentation.

****
endif::arc42help[]

=== Quality Tree

ifdef::arc42help[]
[role="arc42help"]
****
.Content
The quality tree (as defined in ATAM – Architecture Tradeoff Analysis Method) with quality/evaluation scenarios as leafs.

.Motivation
The tree structure with priorities provides an overview for a sometimes large number of quality requirements.

.Form
The quality tree is a high-level overview of the quality goals and requirements:

* tree-like refinement of the term "quality". Use "quality" or "usefulness" as a root
* a mind map with quality categories as main branches

In any case the tree should include links to the scenarios of the following section.


****
endif::arc42help[]

[cols="1,1,2"]  
|=== 
|Quality Category |Quality |Description 
|Performance
|Responsiveness
|The system is expected to respond quickly to user inputs
|
|Concurrency
|Multiple users must have service at the same time

|Security
|Individuality
|User's actions must not interfere with another user's experience. For example, pressing a button in one session should not affect any other user's game.
|
|Robustness
|The user must not see anything he's not expected to.

|User experience
|Continuity
|A player must be able to continue playing without issue for as long as he wishes.
|
|Intuitiveness
|The system must be easy to understand and use
|
|Freshness
|The questions on the sytem musn't become predictable nor be the same all the time.
|===

=== Quality Scenarios

ifdef::arc42help[]
[role="arc42help"]
****
.Contents
Concretization of (sometimes vague or implicit) quality requirements using (quality) scenarios.

These scenarios describe what should happen when a stimulus arrives at the system.

For architects, two kinds of scenarios are important:

* Usage scenarios (also called application scenarios or use case scenarios) describe the system’s runtime reaction to a certain stimulus. This also includes scenarios that describe the system’s efficiency or performance. Example: The system reacts to a user’s request within one second.
* Change scenarios describe a modification of the system or of its immediate environment. Example: Additional functionality is implemented or requirements for a quality attribute change.

.Motivation
Scenarios make quality requirements concrete and allow to
more easily measure or decide whether they are fulfilled.

Especially when you want to assess your architecture using methods like
ATAM you need to describe your quality goals (from section 1.2)
more precisely down to a level of scenarios that can be discussed and evaluated.

.Form
Tabular or free form text.
****
endif::arc42help[]
- Responsiveness -> Every input from the frontend must have an appropiate response before a second has passed, else a loading page must be shown.
- Concurrency -> One hundred users at least must be supported simultaneously
- Individuality -> A user selecting the fourth option must not generate any option in another one's game. Each game is a separate entity.
- Robustness -> A bad input from a user must not neither crash nor break the system.
- Continuity -> A user may play 20 games straight without pause. 
- Intuitiveness -> The ui must be clean to enable non tech-savvy users to  enjoy the game within 15 minutes from picking up the game.
- Freshness -> New questions must be inserted into the db to avoid any repetition of questions in a single game. Questions are to be updated every 30 minutes

=== Load testing results
Load test results were made on the deployed application, making use of the gatling tool. 
Load test results are stored on docs/loadtesting.

As you can check, on last version at the time, v1.2.0, the tool showed we passed the concurrency requirement by quite a lot: 485 users concurrently will make only a few users experience some latency, a total of 14% of the total requests, but no fairlures. >500 users does arise some errors, as we tested on 536 users and 5 errors were recorded.

The top latency responses where concentrated on saving the game, but more interestingly, the second behind it often won at the mean latency and were either requests to the leaderboard (api/leaderboard) or to the user's statistics (api/scoresByUser).
